The oxygen and nutrients your
brain needs to function
are carried in blood through
blood vessels from the heart.
If problems in the blood vessels reduce
or cut off this blood flow,
the brain tissue quickly dies.
This is known as a stroke.
Symptoms differ depending on
which area of the brain is affected.
There are 3 different mechanisms for strokes.
In a thrombotic stroke,
a blood clot forms at a narrowed
or damaged area in an
artery to the brain.
In an embolic stroke,
a blood clot in another
part of the body breaks loose,
travels through the body,
and becomes stuck in an artery to the brain.
In a hemorrhagic stroke,
an artery ruptures,
and blood leaks out into the brain,
which prevents blood from getting to
the brain tissue in the surrounding area.
Hemorrhagic strokes usually occur
in those with high blood pressure.